15 of the Most Beautiful Fjord Hikes in Norway

Glacial lagoons, verdant forests and soaring mountains - our guide to the best fjord hikes in Norway...

Looking for the best fjord hikes in Norway? Hiking is second nature to Norwegians and with the vast and varied landscapes on their doorstep, it’s easy to see why. From the white-sand beaches of the Lofoten Islands to the dramatic mountains of the south, and the spectacular fjords in between, there’s something to suit all types of hiker. It's Norway's fjords we're going to focusing on today - because many of the best hiking in Norway happens to be along, around or above a fjord.

Many fjords promise spectacular natural views of untouched verdant forests, ice cold lagoons and sweeping views over seemingly endless cliffs and mountains. They're also great places to chase the Northern Lights during winter. Here, we're going to give you an introduction to the best fjords in Norway (this Norway fjord map will show you where each is located).

In many countries, the best hiking routes are only obtainable to those in the know or with high-tech equipment – this is not the case in Norway, the undisputed home of the fjords! However, with many of the best Norway fjord hikes accessible only by boat or kayak, we would recommend travelling with a guide where possible.

Here are 15 fjords worth hiking on your next Norway walking adventure. These are all day hikes with breathtaking views, many of which are accessible by public transport.

1. Preikestolen, Lysefjord

2. Breiskrednosi Summit Hike, Naerøyfjord

3. Romsdalseggen Ridge, Isfjorden

4. Mount Skåla, Nordfjord

5. Trolltunga (aka The Devil's Tongue), Hardangerfjord

6. Aurlandsdalen Valley, Sognefjord

7. Dronningstien, Hardangerfjord

8. Vidasethovden, Sognefjord

9. Mount Hanguren, Sognefjord/ Hardangerfjord

10. Mount Fløyen, Sognefjord/ Hardangerfjord

11. Mount Ulriken, Sognefjord/ Hardangerfjord

12. Rimstigen, Næroyfjord

13. Urkeegga, Hjørundfjord

14. Himakånå, Nedstrandsfjorden

15. Langfoss Waterfall Hike, Åkrafjord

We've suggested some day hikes within the fjords, but given that wild camping is permissible in Norway we also recommend embarking on a multi-day adventure.

Please note that the route descriptions we have included are summaries, designed to inspire rather than for any navigational purpose. Further mapping and planning - or an experienced local guide - will be needed to safely walk these trails.

What are the Best Norway Fjords For Hiking?
There are over 1,700 fjords in Norway, so choosing which one to visit on a hiking trip can be pretty overwhelming. We recommend heading to UNESCO-designated Nærøyfjord, one of the narrowest fjords in the world - in places it's only 250m (820ft) wide, with sheer cliffs stretching up to 1,800m (5,905ft) high. It boasts some excellent summit hikes, many of which are only accessible by boat, meaning that trails are quiet all year round.

We also rate Hjørundfjord, which carves a path straight through the jagged Sunnmøre Alps, meaning there are plenty of summit climbs on offer.

If you want to be based in a town with more amenities and a plethora of hikes on offer, we recommend either Voss or Bergen. These towns are both located in Norway's West Fjords area, in between Sognefjord and Hardangerfjord, making them an ideal base for hiking and kayaking the Norwegian fjords.

Norwegian Fjord Hikes, Mapped

A map of the fjord hikes listed below, many of which are accessible by public transport. We've broken them down into 'easy', 'moderate' and 'challenging'. An easy hike - by our definition - will take a couple of hours and is suitable for beginners. A challenging hike is an eight to 10 hour affair, normally involving a summit push, and a moderate hike is somewhere in between.

The 15 Best Fjord Hikes in Norway
1. Preikestolen, Lysefjord
Start/Finish: Preikestolen Mountain Lodge (out and back)
Distance: 4.9 miles (8km)
Walking time: 3-4 hours
Difficulty: Moderate
Best for: Iconic scenery and Lysefjord views
Vistas don’t get much more dramatic than this. Towering a dizzying 604 metres over the Lysefjord, Preikestolen (that’s Pulpit Rock in English) is an ancient mountain plateau. The plateau was formed by the expansion of ice thousands of years ago. Tourists first ventured here at the beginning of the 20th century and since then it has become one of Norway’s most famous landmarks, thanks to its sheer beauty and scale.

Hiking to the vertigo-inducing, 25 by 25-metre ledge requires enough stamina to walk around 2.4 miles (4km) each way from Preikestolen Mountain Lodge. It takes most people around three or four hours to complete the trail.

The undulating path ascends 350m (1,148ft) and has some wild swimming spots along the way – great if you need to cool off. Once you reach the top, you’ll see for yourself why this spot frequently features on lists of the world’s most spectacular viewing points - it offers uninterrupted views of the glassy waters and mountains of Lysefjord. End your hike back down in one of the chilly glacial pools at the base.

Closest town: Forsand

2. Breiskrednosi Summit Hike, Naerøyfjord
Start/Finish: Drydal (out and back)
Distance: 12.8 miles (20.7km)
Walking time: 10-11 hours
Difficulty: Challenging
Best for: A bird's eye view of the narrowest fjord in the world
At 1,189m (3,900ft), Breiskrednosi is the highest point on the Naerøyfjord; a narrow strip of water with vast, snow covered peaks rising up on either side of it. You begin the hike more or less from sea level, meaning it’s a climb of over 1,000m (3,280ft) across a single day - hence the 'challenging' rating.

Beginning from the trailhead near the small village of Drydal, you’ll hike inland, climbing up through meadows and forest, crossing glacial streams of meltwater. For much of the year, higher altitudes are carpeted in snow, which you’ll crunch over as you climb higher. There’s a final, steep push to the summit, but the views of the mirror-like fjord and its sheer sides make the effort worthwhile.

3. Romsdalseggen Ridge, Isfjorden
Start/Finish: Romsdalseggen trailhead (circuit)
Distance: 6.4 miles (10.3km)
Walking time: 6-8 hours
Difficulty: Challenging
Best for: Fjord-side ridge hiking
Often touted as Norway’s greatest hike, the journey along Romsdalseggen Ridge is one not to be forgotten. You'll traverse this impressive rocky ridge towards its summit, taking in the sights of plunging waterfalls, glacial waters and craggy peaks. From the summit, you can watch the sunset over the Romsdal Mountains, Kongen, Dronninga and Store Trolltind in the distance.

Start the hike at the bus stop and pass a fast-flowing river. The terrain flattens as you follow the trail past Jamnåbotn and up the steep mountainside towards Åndalsnes, here you will have a 360-degree view of your natural surroundings. For the rest of the hike you will be walking along the ridge of the fjord to the peak, so if you are scared of heights, don’t look down!

Closest town: Åndalsnes

4. Mount Skåla, Nordfjord
Start/Finish: Tjugen parking lot near Loen (out and back
Distance: 9.9 miles (16km)
Walking time: 7-10 hours
Difficulty: Challenging
Best for: Hiking a 1,848m (6,062ft) mountain
You won’t find a longer uphill stretch in the whole of Norway than on this hike. Which is obviously a massive selling point, if you're a bit crazy like us. There are 230 designated hiking trails along Mount Skåla, so you will definitely be spoilt for choice. We recommend taking the route up to the summit, which has an elevation of 1,848m.

This hike starts beside the glassy Loenvatnet lake, passes along rough tractor tracks that wind their way up the mountain, and through thick Nordic forests (complete with wolves and reindeer). The path is well-marked, but some areas can be slippery underfoot. Some walkers elect to stay overnight at Skålatårnet, a hotel with a round tower at the top of the mountain.

Closest town: Loen

5. Trolltunga (aka The Devil's Tongue), Hardangerfjord

Start/Finish: P2 Skjeggedal (out and back)
Distance: 16.7 miles (27km)
Walking time: 10-12 hours
Difficulty: Challenging
Best for: Instagrammable views
Jutting out 700 metres above Lake Ringedal, this dramatic cliff is located deep in the fjord heartland, 170km east of Bergen. In English, the name translates as ‘Troll Tongue’. Legend has it that a cheeky troll didn’t believe he would turn to stone when he stuck his tongue out to make fun of the rising sun. This rock is also known as the Devil’s Tongue, although as anyone who’s studied mythical creatures knows: devils and trolls are not the same thing.

The popularity of the hike to this ancient cliff has skyrocketed in recent years (thanks Instagram). The waymarked round-trip from Skjeggedal is now one of Norway’s most popular hiking trails. But be warned: this is not a mere walk in the park. On average, the route takes between 10 and 12 hours, with 1,000 metres of ascent.

The trail starts to the right of the disused Mågelibanen funicular railway, passes alongside the Ringedal dam, which can be deafening as the water crashes into the dam wall, and over sheer mountain potholes. Follow the red ‘T’ signs to keep to the route. You’ll get good views of Trolltunga along the way. It’s best to visit from mid-June until mid-September, when the snow has melted in the surrounding mountains. If you’re looking to avoid the crowds, hiking to Trolltunga in the middle of winter is a great option.

Closest town: Skjeggedal

6. Aurlandsdalen Valley, Sognefjord

Start/Finish: Østerbø / Vassbygdi (point to point)
Distance: 9.9 miles (16km)
Walking time: 5-6 hours
Difficulty: Moderate
Best for: Lush valley hikes
Once the main connection between east and west Norway, the Aurlandsdalen Valley is wild and rugged. It has securely cemented itself as one of Norway’s favourite hiking destinations. Many people choose to bike or hike across the whole valley, tracing the path of the Aurland River from the small settlement of Østerbø to Vassbygdi. It’s right up there with the best hikes in Norway.

Start at the town of Østerbø and begin the hike. You will pass through a dramatic, wild valley with waterfalls, rivers and lush meadows. Notable landmarks include Nesbø farm, one of the oldest farms in Norway, that was founded in 1664, Nesbø lake with its clear waters, the steep rise over Bjørnestigen towards Vetlahelvete and the traditional colourful wooden buildings on Sinjarheim Farm.

Closest town: Aurland, Sogn

7. Dronningstien, Hardangerfjord
Start/Finish: Røte/Kinsarvik (point to point)
Distance: 9.1 miles (14.8km)
Walking time: 4-6 hours
Difficulty: Moderate
Best for: Following in the footsteps of a queen
Dronningstien translates to 'the queen’s path' - it's known to be one of Queen Sonja's favourite hikes in Hardangar. It's not be confused with Dronningruta, ('the Queen’s Route), a hiking trail in the Vesterålen archipelago.

On this hike you will visit Lake Fitjadalsvanet, several summer pasture farms and countless flowing streams and rivers. Start the trail at the town of Øystese and progress through the varied landscape to the peak. The trail climbs up to 1,100 meters, with the Sørfjord (an inner branch of the Hardangerfjord) on one side, and Hardangervidda National Park on the other. You'll see the Folgefonna Glacier gleaming in the distance. Follow the marked trail and you will trace the edge of the volcanic crater overlooking Lake Fitjadalsvanet.

Closest town: Øystes

8. Vidasethovden, Sognefjord
Start/Finish: Lunde (out and back)
Distance: 5.5 miles (9km)
Walking time: 4-5 hours
Difficulty: Moderate
Best for: Panoramic views of the Sognefjord
If we’re going by visitor happiness, the hike up Vidasethovden is one of the best hikes in Norway. At the summit (1,228m/ 4,028ft) you'll have a view of towering cliffs, small villages, mountains and glacial pools.

The track starts in coniferous forest, near Lunde farm, and climbs steeply upwards. You'll follow the path up to the tree line along mountain creeks, passing through deciduous forest which is ablaze with colour in the autumn. At around 800m you'll pass a summer farm - from there, it's a steep climb up to the summit.

Closest town: Feios

9. Mount Hanguren, Sognefjord/ Hardangerfjord
Start/Finish: Voss centre (out and back)
Distance: 2.4 miles (4km)
Walking time: 2-3 hours
Difficulty: Easy
Best for: Views over Voss
Mount Hanguren is world-famous for its clean drinking waters marketed as Voss, but it is so much more than a water bottling area. Snow-capped peaks define the landscape and continuously catch your eye as you hike. Green pastures, mossy bogs and clean lakes are also in abundance here.

The hiking route begins in Voss town centre, past Voss church and the Folkemuseum, towards Mølster. A dirt and stone path leads you from the base of Hanguren right to the peak and, although steep, this is a trail for beginners. In just two hours you can savour the unrivalled views over Voss and the surrounding region.

Closest town: Voss

10. Mount Fløyen, Sognefjord/ Hardangerfjord
Start/Finish: Floibanen funicular station (out and back)
Distance: 3.4 miles (5.6km)
Walking time: 2 hours
Difficulty: Easy
Best for: Easy summit hikes near Bergen
Mount Fløyen is one of the best hikes in Norway for beginners. You will be hiking near Bergen on a clearly marked trail, so there is no chance of getting lost here. (Please stop it, all of you who just said, "Challenge Accepted.")

Start at the funicular station and follow the marked road towards Blåmansveien. Follow the signposts left and walk past the unmissable domed rain shelter (you could stop here for a picnic) to the steps of Fløyvarden cairn – offering awesome views from 393 metres above sea level. From the cairn, walk through the forest and cross a small footbridge into a clearing high above Bergen. If you want an even easier hike you can take the funicular all the way up to the summit, and then stroll back down.

Closest town: Bergen

11. Mount Ulriken, Sognefjord/ Hardangerfjord
Start/Finish: Ulriksban Cable Car (point to point)
Distance: 3.6 miles (5.8km)
Walking time: 2 hours (one way)
Difficulty: Moderate
Best for: Hiking Bergen's highest peak
This is the highest of Bergen’s mountains and certainly one from which to enjoy the panoramic views of one of Norway’s largest settlements. This is a perfect way to mingle with locals, as many choose to relax and escape from everyday stresses by hiking to the peak of Ulriken (643m/2,109ft).

Start behind the cable car station at Ulriksbanen and follow the marked track. The track winds through the thick green forest, past traditional wooden houses and over small bridges. Pass the biking track and walk through the car park at Montana. Before you know it, you will come face to face with the endless natural views surrounding Bergen. Take the cable car back down or double the distance of the hike by returning on foot.

Closest town: Bergen

12. Rimstigen, Næroyfjord
Start/Finish: Bakka (out and back)
Distance: 4.4 miles (7km)
Walking time: 2-3 hours
Difficulty: Challenging
Best for: Quiet summit trails
Most people don’t even know about Næroyfjord - though it's got a good shout for being considered the most beautiful fjord in all of Norway. It genuinely is a hidden gem amongst the many fjords and mountain ranges that call Norway home. It's an UNESCO-listed World Heritage Site too, but ssssssh.

To scale the mountains of the Næroyfjord you need to start in Bakka – there are no other settlements after that. The hike should take around one and half hours from base to peak, through verdant meadows, thick birch forests and past small lakes. The trail might be short but it is steep, and the rocky terrain can be slippery in the rain.

Although this is Norway’s smallest fjord, the views from the peak of Rimstigen (725m) are not to be missed. There's also the option to kayak further into the fjord though - from where you can summit some of the more central peaks. A guide is essential.

Closest town: Bakka

13. Urkeegga, Hjørundfjord
Start/Finish: Haugemyrvegen parking (circuit)
Distance: 6.5 miles (10.5km)
Walking time: 5-7 hours
Difficulty: Challenging
Best for: Summit bagging in the Sunnmøre Alps
The Hjørundfjord takes the breath away of every hiker wise enough to choose this as their next adventure. The fjord cuts directly through the middle of a mountain, and legend suggests that it is the legacy of an arrow shot by St. Olav, with an arrow still standing to this day in a field in Standal.

There are several hiking options in Hjørundfjord, including the ascent of Mount Slogen (1,564m/5,131ft) from Øye. We, however, recommend the circular Urkeegga hike. On this Norway day hike you'll climb steeply up through the forest and along a ridgeline across the top of the fjord, summiting Klokkskollen (944m/3,097ft) and Maudekollon (1,021m/3,349ft) as you hike - some easy scrambling is required. Expect stunning views of the Sunnmøre Alps and the idyllic Hjørundfjord for much of the journey.

Closest town: Urke

14. Himakånå, Nedstrandsfjorden
Start/Finish: Nedstrand (out and back)
Distance: 3.4 miles (5.5km)
Walking time: 2-3 hours
Difficulty: Easy
Best for: A less challenging (and less busy) alternative to Trolltunga
Locals have always known about Himakånå, or “little Trolltunga” as it is commonly referred, but few visitors take the time to explore this fjord. And unlike the Trollrunga, there are very few pictures of it... mysterious. The area has its own unique microclimate, with oak and birch trees towering over the landscape, and unique rock formations dominating everything here.

In under two hours, you can find yourself overlooking one of the most spectacular parts of Norway. Much like Trolltunga, the cliff hangs over a lake, and only the bravest will walk close to the edge! The hiking is not difficult here; you'll enjoy gentle strolls through valleys, up winding paths and over small streams.

Closest town: Sandvik

15. Langfoss Waterfall Hike, Åkrafjord
Start/Finish: Langfoss car park (out and back)
Distance: 2.4 miles (4.5km)
Walking time: 2-3 hours
Difficulty: Moderate
Best for: Wild waterfalls
A short but steep climb to the top of Åkrafjord, for a view of Langfoss waterfall, a wild torrent that's 612m (2,008 ft) high. You'll follow a clearly demarcated trail up through dense forests towards the waterfall. Even when you can't see it, you will hear it thundering through the air and shaking the ground under your feet.

The steep trail offers frequent views of Langfoss as you climb higher. At the top, you’ll be rewarded with stunning views of the Åkrafjord and the cascading waterfall. The descent follows the same path, so take care on the steeper sections.

Closest town: Langfoss

When is the Best Time of Year to Visit Norway's Fjords?
If you want to do the best fjord hikes in Norway, you’d better arrive at the best time of year! The hiking season kicks off in spring and lasts until around October. Peak season (from mid-June to the end of July) is ideal hiking weather - temperatures average around 13°C to 18°C, sometimes going into the twenties. However, weather in the fjords is changeable, and it often feels like you're experiencing all four seasons in a few short days - sunny skies, sudden showers and snow on the mountains. Make sure you pack accordingly!

One certainty of visiting Norway in summer is that you get to experience the midnight sun, which means more hours on the trails. However, peak season draws a crowd. If you want a chance of the trails to yourself in summer, it’s best to hit the trails during weekdays instead of weekends.

By autumn, you’ll find the paths pleasantly empty, as the leaves start to turn red and gold. Temperatures will drop slightly, but there's no such thing as bad weather, only bad clothes for the weather, right? Out of season, there is snow and lots of it. Winter hiking in Norway is a wonderful experience - you'll get to truly immerse yourself in snowy wilderness, away from the peak summer crowds. To cross the snow you will need to use snowshoes to distribute your weight - your guide will be able to show you how to use them.